India has a field marshal rank, but it
is mostly honorary. There are no Field
Marshals in the army organizational
structure at present and it has been
conferred on only two officers in the
past, namely the late Field Marshal
Kodandera Madappa Cariappa and the
late Field Marshal Manekshaw .
A field marshal, unlike other officers,
does not draw a pension. He gets the
full pay of a general equal to the
Chief of the Army Staff until his
death. He wears full uniform on all
official occasions and runs an office
in army headquarters. He also has a
dedicated secretariat of his own.

The Chief of the Army Staff is the
commander and usually the highest-
ranking officer of the Indian Army .
The position is abbreviated as COAS
in Indian Army cables and
communication, and usually held by
a 4-star officer in the rank of
General.
The current COAS is General Dalbir
Singh Suhag , who took office on 31
July 2014 following retirement of
General Bikram Singh . 
Lieutenant general, lieutenant-general
and similar, (abbrev Lt Gen, LTG and
similar), is a military rank (NATO code
OF-8) used in many countries. The
rank traces its origins to the Middle
Ages where the title of lieutenant
general was held by the second in
command on the battlefield, who was
normally subordinate to a captain
general .

In modern armies, lieutenant general
normally ranks immediately below
general and above major general ; it is
equivalent to the navy rank of vice
admiral , and in air forces with a
separate rank structure, it is
equivalent to air marshal. A
lieutenant general commands an army
corps , made up of typically three
army divisions , and consisting of
around 60,000–70,000 soldiers (U.S.). 

Major general, major-general and
similar are the names of a military
rank used in many countries. It is
derived from the older rank of
sergeant major general . A major
general is a high-ranking officer;
normally the rank is subordinate to
the rank of lieutenant general and
senior to the ranks of brigadier and
brigadier general. Where relevant, the
rank has a NATO code of OF-7 , and is
considered to be a two-star rank .[1] A
major general in most armies
commands a division, however in
some countries he commands a
brigade .
In a number of countries, major
general is the highest active rank
used; for example, the Commander-
in-Chief of the Estonian Defence
Forces holds the rank of major
general. [2] The rank of major general
is equivalent to the navy rank of rear
admiral, and in air forces with a
separate rank structure, it is
equivalent to air vice-marshal.
Major general in the Indian Army is
equivalent to rear admiral in the
Indian Navy and air vice marshal in
the Indian Air Force and is the lowest
of the general officer ranks, ranking
higher than a brigadier and lower
than a lieutenant general.

In many countries, especially those
formerly part of the British Empire , a
brigadier is either the highest field
rank or most junior general
appointment, nominally commanding
a brigade. It ranks above colonel and
below major general .
The rank is used by the British Army ,
the Royal Marines, the Australian
Army , the Indian Army, the Sri Lankan
Army , the New Zealand Army , the
Pakistan Army and several others.
Although it is not always considered a
general officer rank, it is always
considered equivalent to the brigadier
general and brigade general rank of
other countries. In NATO forces,
brigadier is OF-6 on the rank scale.

 Colonel /ˈk ɜrn əl/ (abbreviated Col.,
Col or COL) is a senior military officer
rank below the general officer ranks.
However in some small military forces
such as those of Iceland or the
Vatican colonel is the highest-rank. It
is also used in some police forces and
paramilitary organizations.
Historically, in the seventeenth,
eighteenth and nineteenth centuries,
a colonel was typically in charge of a
regiment in an army. Modern usage
varies greatly.
The rank of colonel is typically above
the rank of lieutenant colonel . The
rank above colonel is typically called
brigadier , brigade general or
brigadier general.
Equivalent naval ranks may be called
captain or ship-of-the-line captain . In
the Commonwealth air force rank
system, the equivalent rank is group
captain.

Lieutenant colonel is a rank of
commissioned officer in the armies
and most marine forces and some air
forces of the world, typically ranking
above a major and below a colonel.
The rank of lieutenant colonel is often
shortened to simply "colonel" in
conversation and in unofficial
correspondence. [1] A lieutenant
colonel is typically in charge of a
battalion in the army.

 Majors are typically assigned as
specialized executive or operations
officers for battallion-sized units of
300 to 1,200 soldiers. In some
militaries, notably France and Ireland,
the rank of major is referred to as
commandant , while in others it is
known as captain-major . It is also
used in some police forces and other
paramilitary rank structures, such as
the New York State Police , New Jersey
State Police and several others. As a
police rank, Major roughly
corresponds to the UK rank of
Superintendent .

 In NATO countries the rank of captain
is described by the code OF-2 and is
one rank above an OF-1 ( lieutenant or
first lieutenant) and one below an
OF-3 ( major or commandant ). The
rank of captain is generally
considered to be the highest rank a
soldier can achieve while remaining in
the field.
In some militaries such as United
States Army and Air Force and the
British Army, captain is the entry-level
rank for officer candidates possessing
a professional degree, namely medical
professionals (doctors, nurses,
pharmacists, dentists) and lawyers.
(In the United States Army, lawyers
who are not already officers at
captain rank or above enter as
lieutenants during training, and are
promoted to the rank of captain after
completion of their training if they
are in the active component, or after
a certain amount of time, usually one
year from their date of commission
as a lieutenant, for the reserve
components.)

 A lieutenant (abbreviated Lt. , LT. ,
Lieut. and LEUT.) is a junior
commissioned officer in many
nations' armed forces, fire service , or
law enforcement .
The meaning of lieutenant differs in
different military formations (see
comparative military ranks ), but is
often subdivided into senior (first
lieutenant ) and junior ( second
lieutenant ) ranks. In navies it is often
equivalent to the army rank of
captain; it may also indicate a
particular post rather than a rank. The
rank is also used in fire services,
emergency medical services , security
services and police forces.
------------------------------
 
